# Column generation and local search for the profit-oriented hub-line location problem with elastic demands

## Introduction
This work address the profit-oriented hub-line location problem (ED-HLLP). A column generation method is introduced to solve the linear relaxation of a mixed-integer model and 
a matheuristic that combines column generation and local search.

## Project Structure
### Problem Data
- `cabdata/`: Directory containing CSV files with distance and demand information between nodes.
  - `cab*_c.csv`: Distance data between nodes.
  - `cab*_w.csv`: Demand data between nodes.
  - `cab*_c_mtl.csv`: Distance data between nodes (for Montreal case study).
  - `cab*_w_mtl.csv`: Demand data between nodes.
### Dynamic-programming labeling path generation code 
- `src/`: Source code directory.
  - `main.py`: Entry point for running the main column generation process.
  - `common/`: Common utilities and data structures.
    - `structures/`: Contains data structures used in the project.
    - `utils/`: Utility functions for data processing.
  - `logic/`: Core logic and algorithms for the project.
  - `tst/`: Test scripts for validating the code.
### Problem solving/Formulation
- `F_utils.py`: Utility functions used across the project.
- `F3_25_DV_con_LP_2_labeling.py`: Main script for solve the MIP problem with the path files generated by the column generation process. (ED-HLLP)
### SLURM exection
- `simple_executor.sh`, `simple_job.sh`: Shell scripts for executing jobs.
- `labeling_cab.sh`: SLURM script for running the executable scripts on an SLURM server.
- Data files: `Ldata*_cab_mod.txt`, `Ldata*_symb.txt`: Alternative data files containing distance and demand information in a different format.


### Running Locally
You can run the main Python scripts directly with default parameters or specify custom parameters.

#### Running with Default Parameters
```bash
python src/main.py
python F3_25_DV_con_LP_2_labeling.py
```
#### Running with Custom Parameters
Both scripts use the ifnull function to read parameters. For example:
```python
n = int(ifnull(1, 10))
```
Where 1 is the parameter position and 10 is the default value.

To run with custom parameters:
```bash
python src/main.py <param1> <param2> ...
python F3_25_DV_con_LP_2_labeling.py <param1> <param2> ...
```

```
